---
layout: default
title: Who Will Guard the Guards?
permalink: \guards
date: 2000-01-01
tags: fiction
--- 

It was difficult to get up as early as I had and there weren't many people at the pool. While getting up this morning, I had forgotten to grab my flip-flops; the paint covered cement was cold underneath my feet. With a glass wall behind me I glanced towards the guard office. On the other side of the glass, I could see Orion slaving away on his computer. On the side closer to me was the men’s locker room and on the far side was the women’s. On my left was a five foot wide walkway connecting to the west wall. The windows were covered in metal bars and the wall was made of a foreboding red brick. After a seemingly normal day I looked at my watch, 5:07 PM. Well, it was as normal as it could have been since the disease. Almost six months ago reports of infestation had filtered through various means of media. Infection was sweeping up through the continent of South America. I can't say for sure whether it was viral or bacterial. This disease mostly affected people’s disposition; they would suddenly turn from normal into hyperactive 'fight or flight' response. People reacted differently but most would get angry. At the beginning, on a local news station there was a scientist who had tried to explain it.

*"And more on the epidemic in South America. Dr. Barret, how exactly is it passed from person to person?"*

*"Well you see, it can get passed through air, water, or open body wounds. So anyway that diseases can spread, this one does."*

*"And what exactly happens when a person becomes infected?"*

*"The easiest way to explain it is that the adrenal gland becomes overactive. This gland manages the amount of adrenaline your blood gets. It creates a heightened sense of awareness and increased blood flow. For normal humans this response lasts a matter of minutes. However this disease causes the adrenal gland to produce for weeks or even months at a time. Anyone that this disease infects should kill themselves immediately, for the good of everyone else.”*

*The reporter looked wide eyed at Dr. Barret, she hadn’t expected that.*

*Dr. Barret continued with a slight Indian accent.* 

*"It seems as though as the disease progresses brain functions start to shut down, causing mild retardation. What this does, in effect, is creates people with only one function, to make more like themselves. In between times of anger, people forget themselves and their loved ones and become machines."*

 

It seemed as though the victims were subject to suggestion from one person, but that was the only semblance of intelligence that they had. The only reason that this seemed to be the case was because these monsters; zombies, demons, or ghouls had organized and attacked all government facilities in the cities they spread through. They started going through the important buildings and moved through the cities with military like efficiency. 

 

Their efficiency is what caused such reaction from the government in the United States of America. It was obvious that our country would soon be taken over if no action was taken. Our President took a drastic one. It was easy to see the disease spread through South America, the stories were well documented. However when the disease had gotten through to L.A. it was difficult, seeing as the main symptom was unexplained anger and everyone in L.A. was already angry, (if only because they lived there). Again it became more documented as it spread to other states. Eventually the entire USNA broke into its 51 individual states[[1\]](#_ftn1). 

 

Only two months after the epidemic became well known, the entire continent of South America had been taken over. Ten days after it had started in North America our President gave cities an incentive to train each government employee; the City of Vancouver took advantage of that incentive. All of the lifeguards who wished to stay under the City’s employ were required to attend boot camp. We had essentially become the strong arm of our city. There were several safe houses in Vancouver (mostly government buildings) and the Marshall Center was one of them. Although most of our staff had quit there were ten of us who stayed on at the MCC (we switched between Propstra[[2\]](#_ftn2) and MCC). Four of the lifeguards were at the pool at any one time, sometimes more. This was more for our safety than anyone else's. 

 

While we were at boot camp we had truly become unified. We were all leaders, but all excellent followers as well. In a state of emergency we all deferred to any full time employee, but were fully self sufficient. Our requirements at boot camp changed all of our physique. While no one had been out of shape before boot camp, we were all highly tuned machines after it. C-bur was a short brunette with freckles covering her face and arms. She seemed to always have a fire behind her dark hazel eyes. If mischief was done we first assumed it was her. Of the girls, she was probably the strongest in her upper body. We all were on edge most of the time anyway, seeing as an insurrection was growing around us and we were a major target. There was also Thor, in any emergency he was my automatic second, or first as the occasion may have been. He had short black hair and had a fighter’s stance almost always. He reminded me of pictures of Native Americans I had seen in grade school. His iris and pupil blended together and his eyes were completely black. Calluses covered his hands and a few scars adorned his face. He was a hard worker and an even tougher fighter. Momus was like me in that he had reddish blonde hair; we were both kind of lanky and always in reasonably good humor. Unlike me though, Momus was always looking for a laugh. His blue eyes always seemed to gleam, except on the firing range. He almost reminds me of a bird of some kind, the way that he bobs his head. I stand almost a head taller than everyone except Momus; I’m only a few inches taller than him. I have blue eyes and slightly more red hair and tend to work out my upper body more than him. Both him and I preferred to be sneaky than use brute force. We had surprised everyone at boot camp with our excellent marksmanship and each of our fighting styles. At boot camp, all of the guys had to have a military style hair. The girls didn't. I think this was more for the guy’s morale than the girls. All the girls were required to have it in a pony tail or braided all the time. Beamer was the kindest on the team, but she could snipe a dime at 200 yards. Her kindness seemed to be a reaction to the abuse she had suffered when she was younger. An angry man that was her father had overpowered her and after bruising her body had taken a knife to her temple and left a curved scar stretching down the left side of her face but it hadn’t taken away from her beauty. Her beauty lay mostly in her eyes; they were a deep blue, like the ocean and were in sharp contrast to her almost black silky hair.  There were a couple full time staff that worked in the pool with us still; Romulus and Minerva. Minerva was tall and her personality made me think more of a bonfire than embers. Minverva had bright blue eyes and bright blonde hair. She was the tallest of the girls and probably the best with a handgun. Romulus followed the protocol to the‘t’ and always had an answer. Although he was shorter than anyone he gained all of our respect by caring more for the team than he did himself. Romulus had a shaved head and always seemed to care about our problems. His dedication to work had left a gaping hole in his family life, and after the epidemic spread to the USNA he no longer slept at home.

 

While we were at boot camp the maintenance team had completely changed the pool. While it was still a pool, it was a fortified one. All of the doors were made of two inch thick steel. A 50-Cal sat quietly in the storage locker. Motion sensor machine guns rested at eye level outside. In addition to an "Easy Seal," gloves, and goggles in our fanny packs a Desert Eagle was now standard. The chair that we often guarded on quickly changed to a shield if need be. Unfortunately the glass wall stayed.

​                                                            

While maintaining my 10/20 at the Marshall Community Center pool in late October the emergency alert system started to go off.  It started simply with a light. Most of the guests didn't know what it meant. We'd run audits before but my heart still started pounded in my ears. I would only really be worried if the other lights came on. Everything looked grotesque bathed in red light.

Then the blue and white lights each came on.

 

A bullet shattered the glass closest to me, seemingly of its own accord, but I knew better. I dove for the lane line reels and leaned up against them. An explosion from somewhere shook the floor.

 

As I leaned up against the lane line reels I thought about how useful the steel covers were on them. I reached into my fanny pack and realized C-Bur had been practicing her marksmanship with my Desert Eagle. I cursed to myself. At least she had put the gun back in my fanny pack. I counted the bullets: three. 

 

Immediately Romulus took action. One by one the glass windows on the south wall shattered. All of the guests ran into the locker rooms. I blew my whistle, but no one heard me yell, “No running!” over the gunfire. By now there was a pretty intense fire fight going on between the full timers in the office and the demons outside. Almost every glass panel had been shot out. There wasn't a whole lot between me and everyone that was shooting. Lucky for me Thor and Momus had been cleaning their guns instead of sleeping; the door to my left burst open and suppressive fire spit out forcing the demons to retreat. 

 

As I slid into the office I glanced at the mirror that was tilted towards the South wall of the building, I noticed more than a hundred demons in the reflection. Then it shattered from a stray bullet. I crawled to a slightly safer part of the office. 

 

*Where did they get so much freakin’ firepower?* 

 

I need some snipers. I texted the team leader. She texted me back almost immediately. They were already getting into position in the viewing deck. They were waiting for Minerva to give them the go ahead so she could get onto the 50- Cal. If it had been intense before Minerva was on the 50-cal, now it was chaos. 

 

*I need something that has more than a couple bullets .*

 

As I stood up I let the three bullets fly into the hordes outside. 

Of all the changes they made to the MCC this was probably my favorite. As reports of the disease came closer and closer to Washington less and less families came to the MCC, so we converted the family changing room into our weapons storage facility.

 

“Hey Romulus! I’m grabbin’ a better gun!” I shouted.

 

“Ok!” He waved his hand wildly as he shouted back. 

 

I jumped over the front counter, not caring about professionalism anymore. Pausing before the arsenal I ran a couple of steps up to the rest of the community center. As I looked up, I realized that a bomb had gone off upstairs. Chaos greeted me and chills ran up and down my spine. Warm air rushed by me. I ran into the weapons locker and grabbed 3 weapons and a backpack*.* I flipped on the switch to activate the motion sensor guns. I only just realized how loud it was outside because it was almost silent in the weapons locker. The backpack had several weapons in it and other essential items if we would need to evacuate, which I realized we would need to do. I grabbed an assault rifle and two hand guns.  As I kicked out the door I had the element of surprise on no one. I jumped back over the counter and slammed the front grate shut and locked it. Romulus was still shooting around the cement wall that now lacked glass. On the other side of the pool, Momus and Thor were bunkered down tight, offering a distraction for Romulus. Up on the viewing deck the soldiers were sniping off individual ghouls one by one. I had to assume C-bur and Beamer were in the bunker below the chemical room. 

 

“Rom! I gotta get the other guards. Upstairs has been compromised; we need to get to the rally point north of Battle Ground!”

 

“Crap!” He said, running his hand over his bald head, “Let me reload! I’ve got your back!” He shouted back, and in a few seconds he screamed, “GO!” 

 

Jumping behind the 50-cal I looked up at Minerva. It was quite a site to see Minerva sweeping back and forth killing dozens of ghouls.  She reminded me of something Norse with bleached white hair and a fierce expression. Slamming the door shut behind me, I bounded down into the depths of the chemical room. I ran down the stairs and entered the new door, my feet hurt like crazy as I ran on the grate. There was a short hall with three doors. Hastily I flung the first door open and found C-Bur and Beamer playing cards, listening to big band era music. 

 

“We need to leave.” 

 

They looked at me, bemusedly unable to hear any of the chaos outside. 

 

“This facility has been compromised. There are a couple hundred demons up there.” I continued urgently, trying to sound angry. “Min is on the 50-Cal and Rom is doin okay but I don’t know how much longer we can hold out. It seems for every demon we shoot down there are six to replace him[[3\]](#_ftn3). We can probably get to a rally point by night if we hurry. Grab backpacks while you’re up there and then try to get to the break room, we’ll exit there. Tell Thor and Momus what the plan is. I’ll grab anyone else down here.”

 

In either of the other rooms there was no one. At first I wondered where they might be and then I realized they were probably at Propstra. 

 

*Oh well, just one more stop on the way to Old Grist Mill.*

 

There was a short break for Minerva. Then she started the 50-cal up again. The short silence let us realize exactly how deafening the noise was. I ran around back to the arsenal and grabbed two backpacks and two sets of keys. I was a driver because I always wanted to be. I didn’t know who’d drive the other. The backpacks were for Thor and Momus, who were in the break room. C-bur and Beamer each grabbed one for Red and Ep. 

 

As we made our way back out to the office we were greeted with mayhem. The cement wall that Romulus had been using as cover was almost completely chipped away. I didn’t see Minerva and the 50-Cal wasn’t screaming as it had before. As I poked my head over the edge I saw what looked like a hundred more demons. 

 

“Romulus! What have you guys been doing!?” 

 

“Sittin’ up here picking our noses! I don’t know where they all came from. I think Minerva’s been shot. She’s in the storage room. After she was off the 50-cal they’ve been more aggressive.” He said pointing where Minerva had been. 

 

“I’m gonna go give her first aid!” C-bur shouted. 

 

Although we were all well trained medics, C-bur was the gentlest and most efficient. 

 

I texted the soldiers upstairs again. *Hold off for 2 minutes and then lay heavy fire down.* 

*Ok* was the reply.

 

Romulus went to grab a backpack and returned with two. 

 

He mouthed, “Minerva.”

 

For a short time there was no returning fire from our side. I’m not sure if it confused them or not. I texted Momus and Thor so they would know what we were doing. 

 

When in a fire fight each second is an hour, a minute a day, an hour a week. Although we had only fought for twenty minutes it seemed much longer. 

I looked at my watch.

*In 5…4…3…2…1* 

I steadied myself.

 

Explosions echoed off of every wall. I popped up and aimed my gun, pulling the trigger almost continually. My rifle was set on semi and not auto because one well placed bullet did so much more damage than a hundred in the right direction. Although there had been many demons, it looked like it was clearing up. Where there had been dozens before; there now seemed to be few. While the soldiers sniped off the last few Beamer and I put our weapons in our holsters. I changed out of my guard uniform and into my boots and camo pants. Everyone else changed as well. As I walked out of the office, Romulus grabbed a rocket launcher from underneath Minerva’s desk. My heart stopped. There she was, lying on the ground, looking like a fallen albatross, unnaturally her arms in different directions. C-bur sat next to her, tears rolled down her face. Minerva had been dead since Romulus had seen that she was shot. She didn’t even make it into the storage room. We all had become a bit hardened to death in the last several months. We all cared for her, but now was not the time to show emotion. Now was the time for action. We all steeled ourselves and gave Minerva a moment of silence. I looked at the clock on the wall. It was only a few minutes before six. The sun had been setting earlier and earlier. It set at 6:10 this late in October. We all walked away from the office towards the guard break room. I handed Thor and Momus each a backpack. I heard the car keys chink in my pocket. “Who wants to drive?” I held up the keys. 

 

I threw them to a soldier, he looked scared.

 

It seemed ironic to me that I could enjoy beauty in spite of Minerva’s death, her and I had been close for a full-time staff and a temporary employee. The sun sat in the far corner of the sky blazing a deep orange, like embers after a long fire. Purple streaked across the sky like I had never seen before in my life. 

 

I poked my head out of the door that said, “This door must be closed at all times. Do not open for any reason. Ever.” Then, in small handwriting it said, “Don’t know why they didn’t just continue the wall…” I opened the door and was promptly shot at. I swore very loudly inside my head, and went back in the door. As I turned around, everyone was staring at me. Then I realized I hadn’t sworn inside my head. 

 

“Sorry…”


Romulus handed me both of the backpacks. “Don’t worry, I’ve got this,” he said stepping outside and letting a rocket fly. The explosion completely disintegrated most of the horde that was out there, and threw the rest back. “Kael, run!” Rom shouted. I obeyed immediately and sprinted to one of the Humvees. While opening the door I placed the three backpacks in it. The soldier would have to take the brown Humvee. Kicking it in reverse I backed up and flipped around. I pulled up next to the Southwest corner of the building. Everyone piled in quickly while the demons regrouped themselves. Everyone, except Romulus. The pitter patter of gun fights far off let us know that we were not the only ones in the city with problems. C-bur rode shot gun. Beamer sat on the turret and Momus and Thor rode in the back and the three sisters rode in the center seat. 

“Rom! What are you doing!?” I shouted as I realized he wasn’t going to get in.

 “I’ll hold them off and ride with Thor.” He yelled back. 

​       

We whipped around to the second Hummer and let Thor, Momus, and the soldier out. I felt outnumbered when I realized that I was the only guy in my car. As we were about to pick up Romulus another swarm of fifteen demons came up in front of him. Beamer wasn’t ready with the turret, Romulus let off a rocket and then ducked, but the force was too much, they were too close. The last time I saw Romulus was of him being completely engulfed by flames and the red beasts. Body parts flew everywhere as if from a human grenade. 

 

The soldier and I made eye contact, his brown eyes looked wide with fear.  

 

Then we drove around the front of the building. Most of the glass was missing from the front of the building as well as a fair amount of the walls. It looked like the gates of Hades. The last time I ever saw the MCC was in my rearview mirror.

 

Pulling onto Ft. Vancouver Way we hopped on the freeway. Although it was dusk we would soon have to turn our headlights on. At night the demons had the advantage. Adrenaline makes everything sharper, and their eyes can dilate more easily than ours. 

On the CB radio Thor’s voice crackled, “Any chance any one grabbed our close combat weapons?” 

I looked at C-Bur, Beamer and the soldier.

C-bur grabbed the radio, “Looks like we’re gonna be making a stop after we pick up any stragglers at Propstra.”

After turning onto Stapleton and driving up Divine it became dark. 

We didn’t turn on our headlights yet, if only because we didn’t want everyone knowing exactly where we were. The rat-tat-tat of guns told us we weren’t the only ones here left in the city Donning our backpacks we switched the safeties off of our weapons. We went in slowly. The front of Propstra looked normal. As we made our way through the front door, (it was locked but the glass was shattered) we realized that the soldiers were just taking pot shots at the windows. We all relaxed a little except Momus.

Momus took his handgun which wasn’t loaded and cocked it. He took the weapon and held it to the soldier’s temple and grabbed the collar bone of the soldier. 

“What do you think you’re doing? You wasted a hundred bullets on the windows, not only ruining the windows but also wasting precious bullets! Don’t you get that we’re in a war. This is active combat! Each bullet is another second of life, and not only yours but everyone else here!”

“Sir, we’ve been bored out of our minds for the last couple of hours.” He said apologetically, looking at the ground. 

“Do you need me to relieve you of that mind?”

“No sir.”

Another soldier looked at me, “We found this kid. I dunno if we should bring him with us or not…”

“Hi.” The kid said, looking at the floor.

 

I looked at the kid. He might have been fifteen. He had big sad eyes that were proportionate to his head, but not to his body. His eyes were brown and he stood a head shorter than most of us. 

“Kid, what’s your name?” Momus asked.

“Tom, but everyone calls me Marvin.”

“Then why didn’t you just say Marvin?” Momus replied, still hot and bothered.

 

“We need to get to the Mill,” Thor spoke up.

“What stops are we making?” A soldier asked. 

“As far as I see things going, we’ll make our stop and pick up close combat weapons. After we pick up Super Soldier we can pick up Samson, I’ll text them both; they should be on our way. Diana you can take your sister and I can pick up Samson and Super Soldier. We’ll head up 500 to Padden, down to 72nd and that’ll be our first stop. Then we can go down 72nd to 179th Samson lives there. We can cut over to 503 and then up to the Mill.” I said.  

C-bur pushed me aside and said, “Ladies first.”

And with that we walked into enemy gunfire. 

 

Half an hour later we drove out of the Propstra parking lot. After having another successful battle, we were tired. The bored soldiers were ready for some more action. Marvin stayed with my Humvee. Thor’s vehicle stayed in front of me most of the time. As we drove down Padden we noticed houses on fire. It would have been difficult to see but everything was pitch black, the houses dotted the hillside like lights on a Christmas tree. The only thing that seemed to be alive was our Humvees and us. We came up to a stoplight, they were flashed red. As we pulled into the parking lot my phone buzzed. C-bur grabbed it. 

 

We headed to Home Depot to get our hand to hand combat weapons. Of course we were the only people in the parking lot, but not in the store. There were three or four employees, looking slightly bored. When they saw us, their eyes lit up in an uncomforting way.

 

“How can we help you?” They all said in unison.

 We all looked confused at them, and they smiled in return.

Finally I spoke up. “Well we need to kill people.” I paused, “Infected people. My preference would be heavy metal objects that are sturdy, maybe a crowbar?”

One of the employees stepped forward. She was a short blonde and bouncy looking. “If you come this way, I can help you find what you’re looking for.” Her voice was high pitched, she reminded me of a chipmunk. 

I followed her. Past sections labeled ‘lawn care,’ ‘lighting,’ and ‘plumbing’ was an aisle, all the way in the back. This aisle was furthest from the entrance. Its label was “Hand to Hand combat.” I looked at it, and thought, “That’s quite helpful.” I had wondered why this place was staying in business. On the left of the aisle were crowbars. I picked one up. There were also axes, pickaxes and tamping irons, even shovels. Anything that could have been used as a weapon was in this aisle. There were also deadbolts for people’s house, sandbags and heavy duty wood for boarding up windows. Thor grabbed a sledgehammer. Momus grabbed a 20 lb. tamping iron. C-bur grabbed an axe. Marvin didn’t grab anything. He said he’d rather die anyway. Momus agreed that he’d rather Marvin would die too. I was glad they got along so well. Beamer went with a hatchet, and then we walked to the front of the store. We talked about how lucky we were that we found all of our preferred weapons. As we walked out past the check stand we heard a shotgun cock, as if to fire. We stopped walking. 

The bouncy blonde looked at me, “Weren’t you planning to purchase those?”

“Uh, yeah.” I said, more than mildly confused.

We put all of the ‘weapons’ on the counter.

“That’ll be $357.42,” she said after scanning all of the items. 

“I told you’d we’d die.” Marvin pointed out, very unhelpfully.

I patted each of my pockets, knowing that nothing was in them. 

Once a week each of us lifeguards were paid a gold coin. Each weighed about an ounce.

“How about I give you a gold coin? It’s worth so much more than what these are.” Thor Suggested.

The cashier thought and then smiled greedily as she said, “I’ll take a gold coin for each tool.”

“These are worth so much more!” We all shouted, unconvincingly. 

“Rom was the one that had the government debit card.” Momus said.

C-bur pointed out that Romulus had given me the backpacks. 

“I’ll go check those.”

I ran out to the car, frustrated at the ludicrous situation. Sure enough one of the backpacks, in the last pocket I looked at was the debit card. It had hundreds of thousands of dollars on it. 

I gave her the card. She smiled pleasantly as she handed it back. This had the opposite effect that it normally would have. “Have a nice day.” She said.

We left in a hurry. 

“I hope they die painfully.” Momus muttered to me we walked out of the building. 

“I hope everyone dies painfully.” Marvin muttered, to no one in particular. 

 

As we traveled further east on 72nd we noticed more and more fires. It became obvious that the demons were just running through the countryside raising hell. This seemed counterintuitive, it seemed that as we traveled further and further from their point of origin (the South), there ought to be less and less of them. We turned on 179th towards 503. Rolling up to Samson’s place; flood lights bathed everything in an extremely white light. When we got near it, we realized he was in a fire fight. 

Thor’s voice crackled to life again, “We’ll go left and you go right.”

We both had to take sharp turns to get into his driveway. I ended up just going in his neighbor’s driveway and driving through the fence. There was barely enough room for me to get through the trees. Samson’s old log cabin had more than a few bullet holes in it, but Samson wasn’t in it. I saw him in his front lawn, with two pistols and a shotgun strapped to his back. He pointed both his pistols in different directions and let 3 rounds go. Out of the trees that surrounded his house two bodies fell. There were a dozen bodies strewn about the lawn, like someone had been playing dolls and had gotten bored. As we rolled in he dropped his pistols and loaded his shotgun. By this time I was out of the vehicle. I caught up with him; he was walking around his house to the back. It seemed like no one else was interested in getting out. 

“What happened? Where’s Theo? How’s your family?” I asked, looking at him.

Without making eye contact he replied, “Theo took the parents and some friends up to our civilian safe house. You know Zacharias’ house?” 

“Yeah,” I said, surprised that he was that frank.

“It’s not there, but that’s all I know. As far as here goes,” He said, confusing me. He opened his backdoor by kicking it down. He unloaded a couple of shells into some demons attempting to sneak up behind him in the front. He continued, “I think they know where we are headed and are trying to take us out before we get there. Are you all trying to do anything besides get to the safe house?” He said to me without looking at me.  

“Not that I know of. Unless we are carrying something I don’t know about. The only thing might be that if the President hasn’t found out what’s happening on this side of the country yet then this will be news.”

I couldn’t think of anything. I went over to look at the slain demon. The skin on his face was red. His hair was long; apparently he’d been in this state a long time. His eyes rolled back. It gave me the chills. 

*That’s a guest in distress if I’ve ever seen one.*

Samson and I walked back out to the cars. 

“You ruined my bench swing.” He said, looking at a pile wood underneath my Humvee.

“You can ride shotgun.” I replied as I got into the driver’s seat.

He looked longingly at the pile of wood and then let C-bur out and got into the vehicle. 

The autumn air was brisk and the wind made it more noticeable. Leaves carpeted the ground and flew through the air; it was almost like driving through snow. I drove out of Samson’s driveway the same way we came into it, crushing most everything. Samson sighed and put his hand on his face and ran his hand through his long hair. I looked at him, impressed with his beard.  We continued along, Diana out front and I brought up the rear. We stopped and looked both ways getting onto 503. On our right there seemed to be a barricade. It looked like a train turned on its side. I didn’t even want to know what happened. Now the other Humvee and I drove side by side. My speedometer reached 100. We slowed down to 60 while going into Battle Ground. The movie theater was on fire. A jet black mustang passed both of us. It exploded into a gridlock on Main Street. The explosion alerted us to slow down. There were cars all over the place. All were empty. The stop lights flashed red. 

 

Lucky for all of us guards, people had continued to purchase smart cars as a result of the emissions requirements that the government kept passing through congress. Congress, to me, was the epitome of regression.  Both of us stopped with our Humvees hood’s next to a smart car, looked at each other, then floored it. We just ploughed through the mess of cars. Smart cars were the dumbest invention I could think of. We got through the lights at Main Street and Onsdorff. We almost passed 244th when I noticed the tail of a rocket miss my vehicle by inches. I kept driving, looking in the rearview mirror every couple of seconds. We could see where they were coming from but we both worried more about the actual rockets than their source. Marvin watched the rockets go by listlessly saying, “I told you so.” It seemed as though our two vehicles had more enemies than we could’ve counted. When the rockets finally hit something they exploded in red, smoke billowing out of each crash site. There were three explosions so far. A four wheelers lights cut into my rearview mirror. Beamer quickly cut him down, thinking he was the source. Although the incident passed, it put all of us on edge. 

 

“So guys, how are you all feeling?” I said, hoping to get out of my head and stop thinking for a little. 

“Badly,” Marvin said, looking out the window.

“Doin’ alright. I’m ready to get there. How much longer?” Samson answered.

“We’ve got 4 more miles on 503, then we’ll turn onto Cedar Creek Road. It’s almost 8 more after that.”

“How are we doing on time?” C-bur asked.

I looked at my watch; I was one of the few that actually wore a watch anymore, “Almost nine o’clock. I bet we’ll be there before 9:30.”

Samson looked at me, confused. “Its only 12 miles, how could that take half an hour?”

“We’re barely going 30 miles an hour, there’s tons of potholes on this road.” I said defensively, hitting a huge pothole on purpose. 

“I hope you all have your seatbelts on.” 

I picked up the radio, “You guys want to contact the safe house and tell them we’re on our way. We’ve got a backpack from Romulus and I think there is more in it than we anticipated.” 

Thor’s voice came through the speaker, “Yeah, we can do that.” 

Beamer came down through the turret. We hadn’t seen anyone in a little while and it seemed unnecessary to have her on the turret while we were going as fast as we were. I continued to cruise up 503; we saw only a few more vehicles, mostly people enjoying the lack of law enforcement and joy riding. 

I continued to talk. “So the plan is to get to the safe house. Figure exactly out what we’ve gotten ourselves into. We can sleep for a day or so and head out the day after tomorrow, as soon as the sun comes up. Things will get better eventually.”

Marvin laughed sarcastically. 

We got to Grist Mill with nothing else happening. A ten foot cement wall bordered the place. A slightly taller cement wall was about seven feet closer to the center of the complex. Beamer and a soldier got into each turret and parked the cars side by side. We went up to the gate, and pushed the intercom button.

Momus spoke up, “We need to get in.” He said harshly.

“What’s the pass code?” A male voice said. 

“No one knows; our supervisor died at the MCC. Thor is acting supervisor.”

“Thor! Why didn’t you say so!?” The voice said, excitedly interrupting.

We heard a click hum and the door started to open.

*Here we go.* I thought.

“Here we go.” Momus said.

 

When the doors mechanical motor completely stopped, the 50-cals started up. Beamer and the soldier were tearing up something from the direction that we had come. Whatever Beamer was shooting at had followed us. Bullets swarmed past my head; I had no idea where they were coming from.  Momus, Thor and I kicked the doors open and used them as shields. Kneeling behind the front tire of my Humvee I took cover. We had all been to the safe house once before. I knew that there were flood lights. Unfortunately I didn’t know who to shout to. The only thing I saw was the occasional gun go off from the other side, other than that I was almost completely blind. Grabbing the keys, I jammed them into the ignition and turned all of the lights on. A couple of round shot out of my M5. Pointing the spotlight in another direction I noticed how many demons there were. They swarmed like bees. Most didn’t have guns, so we shot at the ones that did. Sweeping back and forth with automatic weapons we killed many of the ones we shot, maiming some. 

 

“Can we get some light out here?!” I shouted towards the safe house.

“Hold on!” replied the speakers.

I turned to Momus, “Who in the world is in there?”

“I don’t care near as much as I care about the people who are shooting at us.” He said, colorfully.

“Ah, good point.” I ceded.

 

Slowly it became obvious that shots were only being fired from our side. There were still many of them, but they didn’t have any firepower. They became reckless and we became aggressive. For a short while there was a break. 

I shouted, “Thor! Turn your lights on!” 

I heard no response but in a few seconds I heard his Humvee roar to life. 

 

When Thor came out of the Humvee he threw his semi automatic weapon on the driver’s seat and used the Desert Eagle. He only had 10 rounds but that would be all he needed, because he had his hammer. Momus and I quickly realized what he was doing. We fanned out on either side of him. Suddenly the small parking lot was filled with a completely unnatural, bright, white light. *Perfect,* I thought. The bodies started to pile up around Thor. He had gone through his magazine much too quickly, but he was a master at using his hammer to fell enemies. Momus and I used our marksmanship and quick reflexes for all they were worth. Each bullet was worth another second of Thor’s life. I didn’t waste them. I had fifteen rounds left. It was not as much a slaughter as it had been at the beginning. Ten rounds. The beasts became more desperate and angry.  I flipped my gun round my back and started using my crowbar. I felt skull crush underneath my weapon. A shaft of wood flew past my head, missing it by inches. I turned around and a demon was on me. He was too close to use my crowbar. Thor turned around and swung his hammer towards the demon and completely crushed his skull. Fighting back to back it seemed as though we would be unstoppable; that was short lived. We saw a new wave come from a ways off. Finally we got sniper support from the safe house and what had seemed like many were no more. Everything was silent. Thor and I breathed hard. I could hear my heart pounding in my ears. Adrenaline made me light headed for a second. Finally, after getting out of the myriad of bodies Thor and I breathed in fresh air. 

Thor and I drove into the safe house while everyone else walked in. 

A strong male’s voice broke the silence, “We need to burn those bodies or they’ll attract more.” 

“How did they find here? I thought it was supposed to be a safe house.” C-bur asked.

“My bet is that they followed you here. If the attacks are as intense as I’m seeing over the CB scanner then there’s enough of them to follow you anywhere.” 

 

The gates whined as they shut. 

 

I looked at my watch. We had gotten here just after 9:30 and we had fought for almost half an hour. I didn’t think any of us had eaten since lunch and that was more than eleven hours ago. It was odd, feeling safe for the first time in over five hours. After throwing our backpacks into the sleeping quarters we came back to kitchen. It felt modern but cold. In the left back corner sat an LCD screen. It was large and in the bottom corner of it a red light blinked. I pointed this out to the person who seemed to be in charge and he flipped it on. The back end of a Humvee rolled through the screen. In the top left corner there was an ‘8.’

“No one else should be on the way, unless something happened to the other safe house. It looked government.” He acknowledged.

“Wouldn’t you have heard if something happened to the other safe house?” Beamer asked.

“I wouldn’t have if it happened quickly enough.” The man replied, “Anyway unless they can get through all the roads quick we probably have half an hour. You might as well eat, for all we know they aren’t even coming here. That 8 in the top corner shows when people turn onto Cedar Creek Road.”

We had burgers. They were excellent. It turned out that he was quite a good cook. I never would have thought of him as a good cook, he was too skinny. The man was almost a head shorter than me and had dark brown hair but was pleasant enough.

 

The Humvee was driving faster than he had thought they would. Finishing our food fifteen minutes later, the vehicle drove into the parking lot. Completely alone, the engine shut off. One of the head lights looked as if it were shot out. On the side, printed in big font, were printed the white letters ‘FCC.’ We all sighed in disappointment. Then she got out. I remember the first time I had met her. It was at Propstra, I had only been working a short time. She was much shorter than I was, almost petite. She had short dark hair. 

 

 She smiled warmly, “Hi Kael.” 

 

Most of the lights had been turned off from the safe house. Relief swept through me, she was okay. As my eyes adjusted to the dark I noticed a red glint just to the right of her. I raised my gun. Her warm disposition quickly changed to confused horror. Two rounds flew within inches of her face, the third connected with the demon only five feet behind her. Momus unsheathed his weapon and ran one demon through with it. He pulled it out by kneeing the demon in the sternum. The relative peace broke. Most of my team was unprepared. All of the men had our hand to hand combat weapons ready. While the girls fled to the safe house to offer us sniper support, (which we gladly accepted) the guys crushed demon skulls efficiently. 

A bullet flew past my head from above. The next ripped through my right shoulder. The pain was excruciating. Instinct was all I knew and self preservation my only goal. How I had the sense to face the enemy while I backed up is beyond me. As I made my way through the door I collapsed. Whiteness surrounded my vision, then nothing. 

Some hours later I woke up to C-bur checking my bandages. The sharpness of the pain made my ears ring. 

“Kael, you’re incredibly lucky.” She said.

“You would chalk it up to luck, wouldn’t you?” I replied.

She inhaled sharply, “Hadn’t realized you were awake.”

“Anyone else hurt?” I mumbled.

“Yeah, Thor and Momus.”

“Who’s worst?”

“Probably you but they are all superficial wounds. I wouldn’t be surprised if you are feeling a lot better tomorrow or the next day.”  

Slowly I sat up and looked in the mirror. Turning around I looked at my shoulder. It was a clean wound. It was hardly my shoulder, more like the outside of my arm. I felt like such a baby. A chunk of flesh was missing. After rotating my arm I couldn’t stand the pain. As C-bur exited the room she dimmed the lights. 

“Get some sleep,” she closed the door.

As I lay down to sleep my mind started to sort through the day’s events I noticed the display of the time on the ceiling, 4:58 AM. Twelve hours ago everything had been normal. I never thought anything like this could happen. Soon I was in a deep sleep.

I woke up just before lunch the next day.

 

Eros had grabbed a can of diesel and piled the bodies high from the night before. A small pile of ashes was the only evidence of the hundred bodies that had been. I learned only a few had made it from Firstenburg. I had already seen Jerry (the girl I had first seen step out of the car). There was also several others but none so important as Jerry was to me. Jerry and I had been good friends for a long time. For me, pain killers made the next couple of days fly by. Soon I was restless. Thor and Momus had both healed enough in one day. I still had a bandage around my shoulder. I felt cumbersome for the time. On the bright side it was my off hand that was damaged; I could still shoot a gun and swing a crowbar. 

 

Soon after I was out of the medical wing of the complex Jerry found me.

“Are you okay?” She said with concern.

“I will be in a couple of days.” I said trying to show a brave face, though my shoulder hurt like crazy.

“Good,” she said. Then she smacked me upside the head, hard.

I flushed, angry. “What was that for?” I shouted.

“You could have killed me!” She matched my loudness.

“That demon would have killed you anyway!” I explained.

“You couldn’t have shouted, ‘duck!’ or anything. You just had to shoot right next to my freaking head and scare the crap out of me!”

“I just reacted. I didn’t want you hurt.” I tried to tell her. 

She scowled at me. Eventually it turned into a smirk; she always had a hard time staying mad at me. 

“I’m sorry.” I apologized. 

“I’ll forgive you this time but next time give me some warning; any warning will do.” She said, sighing. 

She brightened up, “It’s time for dinner.”

 

As we walked down the hallway towards the dining area Marvin noticed us. 

“Oh,” he said, obviously disappointed, “I thought you died.”

“Nope, just got shot.” I said, faking enthusiasm. 

“Too bad.” He said as we entered the dining hall.

Jerry and I looked at each other, dumbfounded.

Only a few of us prayed before eating our food.

Momus looked at me cockeyed. 

“Kael, I’ll never get you.”

“I could say the same for you.” I replied. I continued to everyone, “Where do we go from here?”

The safe house officer answered, “Silver Creek Campground is where we’ll go tomorrow. We won’t be able to do it in one shot either. There will be a supply stop where North Fork 90 and 25 meet.” He said, looking at a map, “In addition to driving over one hundred miles tomorrow we’ll have to fix the Firstenburg Humvee tonight.”

“Do we have the stuff for it?” C-bur cut in.

“Yeah,” he said.

I noticed that the Firstenburg staff all sat together. While the meal wasn’t extravagant, being with everyone made me happy. 

 “Did we look in the backpacks?”

“No,” the officer paused, looking around the table, “Should we?”

 For a long time no one said anything, then Jerry spoke. 

“I want to know what is in those stupid bags! We’ve been carrying them around the whole freaking time in order to get them to someone important and we don’t even know what’s in them! The heck if I’m gonna sacrifice my skin for something stupid and not even know what it is.”

With that she completely unzipped the backpack and turned it upside down. She then separated everything. Because this was primarily a survival kit, most of the contents were obvious. It wasn’t the survival knife or the flint and steel or the Clif bar that caught any of our attention. The only thing that none of us recognized was the letter that fell on top. It had been in the outer most pocket and had fallen out last. It was signed personally by Romulus. He had signed over the seal. Mumbling that he didn’t care whether he wasn’t supposed to open or not, Thor grabbed it and used the survival knife and gently slit the top of the letter open.

 

*To whom it may concern:*

*As you now know the West Coast and South America have fallen to this epidemic. While we do not know exactly what will stop it but we do know that cold deters the disease. In order to disable any person infected they would have to be shot in the cranium or heart. Other than these bare facts we do know that the virus is extremely aggressive and those infected are likewise aggressive. After this message is received I urge you to close your borders to any traffic coming from South America. Drastic actions need to be taken in order to quarantine this to the Americas. May God help us all.*

*Romulus* and then his signature was in pen. 

 

Eros and Apollo worked on the vehicle while Thor Momus and I cracked jokes about nothing in particular.

 

After dinner and duties were completed the guys sat around a card table and hazy smoke filled the small room. I took a drag from a Cuban cigar, not caring how I came to enjoy it. Texas Hold ‘Em was my favorite card game to play. I threw an ante in. 

Turning to a guy from FCC I asked, “What happened at Firstenburg?”

“Aw man, let me enjoy the game. I lost a lot of friends and I don’t want to think about it just yet.”He said, slurring his words. 

“Sorry, I’ll drop it.”

By the time we called it a night Thor had stolen the night; it was fun even though I lost most of my money.

We got up at sunrise and drove out of the complex. Most of the driving passed without incident. There were obvious signs of infestation but we didn’t see any demons. We got to NF-25 and filled our gas tanks. As each Humvee filled up it would drive up the road protecting the vehicle that was filling up. Most of us were on edge, except Marvin, he was just depressed. 

I didn’t know who drove the FCC Humvee but they were last in line with the other MCC Humvee up front. In my Humvee were Jerry, Thor, Momus, Marvin, C-Bur, and Samson. We pulled back onto NF-25 and started to pick up speed when out of nowhere a rocket rushed right by the two MCC vehicles. It connected with the ground right next to FCC vehicle. The explosion was enough to spin it sideways. Another rocket connected with the vehicle, flipping it over. Within seconds a third and fourth rocket found their targets in the driver side window and the left rear tire. Nothing was left except melted rubber, shards of glass and ripped metal. I floored it. 

With so many demons this far north we would need to travel somewhere safer, a completely different continent. 

Thor radioed into the Silver Creek Campground. They were already evacuating the facility. They said they would try and leave two helicopters if they could. 

Several hours later we rolled into the campground and I realized how many government agencies must have used this as a rally point. In this army base there had been many people. The demons had pursued us, just out of sight the whole way. The campground was on a hill and as we looked out we could see them coming towards us. Our two vehicles had come to a complete stop. They had left two helicopters. I thanked God. Momus and C-bur were the only ones who had been trained in helicopter flight. The rest of us held our ground to stop the flood of demons from getting to the helicopters. Within ten minutes thousands of demons would swarm the base. 

Only seconds barred the way of our death. 

Engines roared to life and the blades slowly started rotating. 

Our snipers were picking off the front of the spearhead of demons as quickly as they could but only kept them at bay for so long. Thor and I took our first shots simultaneously. Soon everyone was firing. For every demon I shot twenty more replaced him. No end was in sight. Crawling over everything like thousands upon thousands of ants they were dead set on stopping us. I paused and looked at the choppers. Less than a football field separated the demons and the guards. I slowly stood up and started to walk backwards. Others soon followed my lead. Each of us had killed so many already but they were still so countless. Demons continued to try and rush us. The blades were picking up speed but I knew if the demons got any closer we would all die. 

My fear bested me; I turned and ran for the chopper. 

Momus’ chopper was closer and I buckled myself into it. I looked over to C-Bur’s chopper and saw the soldiers from Marshall jump in. Soon Beamer jumped in to C-bur’s chopper as well. Samson came to Momus’ bird but I shouted for him to go to C-bur’s. I shoved the backpack that had the letter in his arms. He hesitated only a second but trusted my judgment. He was the closest thing I had to a brother. In Momus’ helicopter Thor had grabbed shotgun. In the far back Marvin sat by himself. I was in the middle. 

“Where’s Jerry!” I shouted, desperate.

She jumped in.

*We were going to make it!*

My heart soared. I felt an upward thrust and knew we had taken off. I breathed a sigh of relief. By nightfall we would be at a safe house that was impossible to reach by foot and in two days time we would be on a completely different continent. We were so close to being safe. So close. 

We were almost a hundred yards in the air, flying over a sea of trees, when a rocket hit the tail of the helicopter. We stayed airborne gaining and losing altitude seemingly simultaneously. The helicopter started spinning clockwise quickly. Wind rushed madly around us. We dropped out of the sky like a stone. Jerry and I held on tight to nothing and knew it was the end. I looked back at Marvin. It was the first time I had seen him smile. One last time I looked at the sky. Samson was leaning out the side of the chopper, reaching towards me and screaming. 

A deafening explosion tore at my ear drums. My vision flashed white from pain then black to nothing. 

------

[[1\]](#_ftnref1) Late in 2009 the Canadian government finally admitted it was basically part of the United States, thus making 51 States in America. While to some it seemed as though Canada would be a large state, less people lived there than in all of any major city so it was generally agreed that it was worth having one new state. When we finally looked over the fence into Mexico for people, there weren’t any. They had all gone under it to California. With this, The United States of America became the United States of North America. Mexico’s statehood was pending. 

 

[[2\]](#_ftnref2) Propstra is another pool run by the city and another safe house in Vancouver. It had never made any large amount of money for the City it was the best place to work out. 

[[3\]](#_ftnref3) After a person had been infected for any short length of time it was almost impossible to tell males apart from females. This is a result of the adrenal gland, it also produces testosterone. So, we refer to any demon in the masculine form.	