---
layout: default
title: Deficit of Attention
date: 2013-01-01
tags: fiction
---
Killian wandered the aisles in the garage.<br>
One bay door was open, releasing dusty air and replacing it with fresh, sunshine air.<br>
There was an organized madness to the garage. Anal retentive maybe, but easily distracted also was the soul that was reflected in this space.<br>
"What's that?" Killian asked, pointing to an object on a shelf with his clipboard.<br>
Brandon walked over to it. "Ping pong set. Two paddles in cases and bundled up with stands"<br>
"When did you last play ping pong it?"<br>
"Three months ago."<br>
"Did you use any of this?"<br>
Brandon shook his head. He was a squat man with a wide forehead. He had thin blonde hair cropped close, almost military. Turning the ping pong paddles over, he set them back.<br>
Killian made a mark on his clipboard. "When was the last time you used these to play table tennis?"<br>
"It would have been, at least a year ago maybe longer," Brandon answered.<br>
Killian made another note on his clipboard."When was the last time you went bicycling?"<br>
"In college."<br>
"Did you live here when you were in college?"<br>
"No."<br>
"Have you ever used this bicycle?"<br>
"Well, I lived closer to my work when I started buying–"<br>
"Sorry, when was the last time you used this bicycle?"<br>
"I haven't." Killian walked over and opened up the bag next to it.<br>
"You have a stand for it. A reasonable lock. Do you have bicycling specific clothes?"<br>
"No." Killian marked down on his clipboard.<br>
"Yes. I have bicycling clothes." Killian made another mark.<br>
"Camping?" <br>
"Last summer but I've been hiking this spring."<br>
"Concrete stuff?" <br>
"Never." After each question Killian made a mark on his clipboard. <br>
"Skiing?" <br>
"I got a good deal." Killian raised made the same mark he had been making.<br>
"Do you work on your car yourself or have a shop do most of it?" He asked pointing at the rolling toolbox. <br>
"Dealer warranty still." Killian sighed. <br>
"What do you do with your time?"<br>
"Internet? I mean, I cook and clean and work. That takes a lot of time."<br>
"I see. Well," Killian said writing some notes as he spoke, "I'm cancelling your Amazon Prime account and perscribing long form reading for an hour a day. Also, go for walks without listening to anything. You also need to pick one of the hobbies from this room and get rid of the rest. Pick something you'll actually do."<br>
"But," he was cut off."Do you want to get better or make excuses? Did you come to me to get better or to say the same?"<br>
"To get better."<br>
"Then try what I say. Besides if you get half of what you paid for for all of this," Killian said waving to the amagalm of dead hobbies, "You'll more than pay for my fee."